AEAP blog post (#550)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: _posts/2022-09-14-aeap.md

---
title: Introducing Automatic E-mail Address Porting (AEAP)
author: hocuri, holga
image: ../assets/blog/2022-07-aeap-0.png
---

The Delta Chat 1.32 releases introduced support for new providers (most notably 163.com), a bigger internal "move to Tokio" infrastructure change resulting in better speed, and the first release of AEAP mechanisms. AEAP enables for e-mail what number porting does for mobile phone communications, i.e. to more easily change between communication providers.

> TLDR; How to migrate to a new provider with Delta Chat:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TL;DR - How to migrate to a new provider with Delta Chat:
```

- Probe and change your address at "Password and Account" seetings screen in Delta Chat
- Make your old email provider forward all emails to your new email address
- Continue chatting as usual :)

> By design, no user confirmation dialogues aka "is this ok?" / "are you sure?" dialogues are presented because user studies show that most people just click "ok" or "cancel" as needed to move forward and rarely understand the implications. If you later discover you want to stick around with your old e-mail address just move back to it :)

Reviewer: well, there is at least _some_ confirmation dialog, it is even shown for android in the blog post just below the statement that no confirmation dialog is shown. ios/desktop have a similar dialog.

(cmp preview at https://staging.delta.chat/550/en/2022-09-14-aeap)

maybe say "we are experimenting with the need of a confirmation dialog",

Author: I think that he means that no confirmation dialog is shown on the receiving side, but yes I also stumbled over that part.

Reviewer: ahhhh :) that makes sense yes. but then the "if you later" speaks again about sending side.

maybe split this paragraph into two to clarify:

```
By design, to the receiver, no user confirmation dialogues aka "is this ok?" / "are you sure?" dialogues are presented
because user studies show that most people just click "ok" or "cancel" as needed to move forward and rarely understand the implications. 

[images]

If you later discover you want to stick around with your old e-mail address just move back to it :)
```
